>> Jen Kramer: Okay, so did anybody style
any of their links in their code pen?
Yeah, so what did you do,
sort of broadly speaking?
What did you do for styling your links?
>> Speaker 2: I made it so
that when you hover over the link
the background is fuchsia.
>> Jen Kramer: Cool, all right, so
we actually have hover state,
somebody's already coded a hover state.
What have you got?
>> Speaker 2: I did hover and then I
enlarged the text and changed the color.
>> Jen Kramer: You made it big and
different color when you hover over it,
very nice.
Okay, so let's talk about how
we go about styling links.
So I went ahead and
make my link set up this way.
So we just have an a here,
we have a font weighted bold,
a text decoration of none and
a color brown.
What does that text decoration none mean?
Anybody?
Anybody know what that is?
>> Speaker 3: The underline.
>> Jen Kramer: It takes out the underline.
So remember by default links are blue and
underlined.
And you can turn off that underline by
turning off the text decoration, okay?
So if we go on ahead, and just to remind
you what my links look like here.
So my links are right here,
Frontend Masters, Google.
University of Harvard Extension School,
these ones right here, okay?
When I roll my mouse over there
there's not a lot going on here.
You have to pay attention to the cursor
to know that these are even links, okay?
If you notice that.
Part of that issue is right now
with what we have to work with,
with our CSS selectors,
we can select our a tag.
But a is actually a really
complicated thing, right?
links can be visited, they can be
unvisited, we can be hovering over them.
There's a lot of different things that
can be going on with a link, right?
So we have some additional items
to work with to describe the states of
our link that are called pseudo-classes.
And so one example of this is a:link.
Okay, so a pseudo-class often
starts with a colon like this
followed by something else.
There are many of these pseudo classes,
I'm only introducing you to a few of them.
And this is a:link.
So these are the unvisited
links on the web page.
Only the unvisited links.
So if we do that and save that and
refresh our web page,
all my links look exactly the same.
Because I guess I've never
visited any of these things.
So, let me visit a page, and
then I'll come back and refresh.
So now you see that I have the first
link there selected, it's now purple.
Why is it purple?
>> Speaker 3: Cuz we've
already gone there?
>> Jen Kramer: Cuz we've already
visited that place before.
And purple is the default visited color,
right?
So we can also style that visited link.
>> Jen Kramer: That's a visited,
all right?
We can change that do something different,
color, green.
>> Jen Kramer: Font size,
2 m or 2 REM, okay.
We'll make them really big
if they've been visited.
>> Jen Kramer: Font weight, normal.
Normal is how we turn off the bold.
So if it's bold in the link state,
we can change that
font weight by saying font weight
normal in the visited state, okay?
Okay, so then we also have
our hover state, a hover.
And hover, of course is what happens
when you actually hover over the link.
Move your mouse, hover it over the link.
So you can do something crazy here,
you could say, color is orange.
>> Jen Kramer: Text-decoration none or
underline.
>> Jen Kramer: So we'll turn back on
that text-decoration when we hover
over our link.
>> Jen Kramer: And then like Emma did,
we can say background-color, white.
That's certainly a legitimate thing to do.
You can also set a background
color on anything.
And if we go ahead and
look at that in Firefox,
you can see we have how the links
change when we hover over them.
Maybe I should change that
background color to a black,
that'll show up a little bit better.
>> Jen Kramer: Black.
>> Jen Kramer: Here we go.
>> Jen Kramer: Cool?
>> Jen Kramer: Any questions on that?
Yes.
>> Speaker 2: When I was originally
trying to do this I was trying
to change the look of it in
the using the list tags, I noticed that
these links are lit are in the list.
>> Jen Kramer: Right.
>> Speaker 2: But that didn't work.
I had these to a tag.
>> Jen Kramer: Have to use the a tag.
>> Speaker 2: What is the,
I guess hierarchy going on there?
Because the thing in the a tag is
also in the inside of a list element.
Why doesn't that work?
And that's the only
thing inside of the list
>> Jen Kramer: That is an excellent
question and it requires a lengthy answer.
So I'm gonna try to simplify which is,
it has to do with the cascade and
the way the cascade is working.
In the browser style sheet, your links are
styled already to be blue and underlined.
So to try to override that blue underlined
style with just a general list item,
that actually is not going to work.
So you would actually need to
override the style by using
a selector that's similar to
the one that your browser used.
So the a or better, a colon link.
Or a class might be involved with that,
too.
So let's talk about how we would go
about adding a class to this as well.
So let's say that we want, [COUGH],
that link to Harvard.
This link here to Harvard.
So I'm on line 36 in my HTML.
As we all know, Harvard is Maroon, right?
This lovely Harvard red, so we want
out link to be Harvard red as well.
>> Jen Kramer: So we're going to put
in a class here on my Harvard link.
Right inside of that a tag,
we can add a class.
>> Jen Kramer: And
we can call this whatever, Harvard.
Okay, so we'll add a class of Harvard
in our HTML right inside of that a tag.
>> Jen Kramer: Over here on the side,
we can write a different kind of selector.
You haven't see this one before.
We can say a.harvard.
So what we've said here,
notice it's a.harvard, no spaces,
everybody see how that's done?
So what we're saying here is for
any a tag that has a class of
harvard inside of it, okay?
And then we can say whatever additional
part with it, link or visited or
hover or anything else, and
write our style that way.
Yeah?
>> Speaker 2: And we could put the class
in anywhere within the a tag?
>> Jen Kramer: Yeah.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Jen Kramer: The attribute order
here does not matter.
You can put the attributes
in any order you want.
It will work just fine.
So here we'll say, color: maroon.
>> [COUGH].
>> Jen Kramer: So
save your CSS and save your HTML.
>> Jen Kramer: And,
let me refresh the webpage.
Harvard is maroon there, but it's
really hard to see with my brown links.
So let me change the link color for
my other links.
Make them, I don't know, light blue.
And now you'll see that it worked.
There we go.
So you see that Harvard
is definitely different.
Frontend Masters is different because
it's one that's been visited,
these other links have not.
Okay, but Harvard now as that
maroon color to it, makes sense?
Sorta kinda, yeah?
>> Speaker 2: So is it considered
good form to get that specific,
by putting like a.harvard?
Because if you don't have anything
else with the class Harvard,
you can say harvard.harvard in your css.
>> Jen Kramer: You can.
So if we did not say anything else here,
we could just say .harvard.
>> Speaker 2: Could you not
use the link or hover or
visited unless you put the a in there?
>> Jen Kramer: Well, let's try this.
So, if we say just .harvard.
So, we've called a class with just
.harvard and we refresh the page.
That quote doesn't work, okay?
And the reason why again has
to do with the cascade in CSS.
And so this,
this is considered not as specific enough
to override the color of the link from
some of these other ones that
we have earlier in the document.
So here, and
there's a very long explanation,
please just say, yes, okay, fine.
It doesn't work,
it has to do with the cascades.
If anybody's really interested,
I'll tell you the whole story.
[LAUGH] But I don't wanna blow up
everybody's heads in the process.
This is like really advanced stuff and
I don't wanna quite go there
with the full explanation.
>> Speaker 2: Does the hover
functionality work for links or
can it work for just the paragraphs?
>> Jen Kramer: Hover can work for
anything, but
hang on just a second lemme finish this
example and then we'll try that out.
So you definitely need the a in front
of this in order for this to work.
At least you need the a in front of this.
>> Jen Kramer: Okay, and
that will bring that back.
And then you can add on the link state or
anything else.